Canada is a country in North America. Its land reaches from the Atlantic Ocean
in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west. The Arctic Ocean is to the north
of Canada. Canada's land area is 9.98 million square kilometres 
(3.85 million square miles). It is the world's second largest country by total
area, but only the fourth largest country by land area. It has the world's 
longest coastline (a border with water). Canada has ten provinces and three 
territories. Most parts of the country are cold or severely cold in the 
winter. Areas in the south of Canada are warm in the summer. Much of the land 
is covered in forest or tundra. Most of the people in Canada live in urban 
areas, near the southern border with the US. This border is the longest between 
any two countries in the world. The national capital is Ottawa, and the largest 
city is Toronto. Other large cities include Montreal, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, 
Quebec City, Winnipeg and Hamilton. The name "Canada" probably comes from the 
Huron-Iroquois word "Kanata," meaning "village" or "settlement." In 1535, two 
Aboriginal youths told an explorer from France, named Jacques Cartier, about 
the route to Kanata. They were actually referring to the village named Stadacona, 
which is near present-day city of Québec. Aboriginal people lived in the places 
(that are now Canada) for a long time. In 1537, the French started a colony. The 
British Empire soon followed. The two empires fought several wars. In the late 18th 
century, only British North America remained with what is more or less Canada today. 
The country was formed from several colonies with the British North America Act on 
July 1, 1867. Over time, more provinces and territories became part of Canada. In 
1931, Canada achieved nearly total independence with the Statute of Westminster 
1931, and became completely independent when the Canada Act 1982 removed the last 
remaining ties of legal dependence with the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Canada 
is a federal parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy, with King Charles 
III as its head of state. The country is officially bilingual at the federal level. 
That means that citizens have the right to communicate with the government in two 
languages: English or French. Immigration to Canada has made it one of the world's 
most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations. Its economy is the eleventh 
largest in the world, and relies mainly on natural resources and well-developed 
international trade networks. Canada's relationship with its neighbor and biggest 
trading partner, the U.S., has a big impact on its economy and culture. Canada is a 
developed country and has the tenth highest nominal per capita income globally as well 
as the sixteenth highest ranking in the Human Development Index. It ranks among the 
highest in international measurements of government transparency, civil liberties, 
quality of life, economic freedom, and education. Canada is a Commonwealth realm member 
of the Commonwealth of Nations, a member of the Francophonie, and part of several major 
international and intergovernmental institutions or groupings including the United 
Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the G7, the G20, the North American Free 
Trade Agreement and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.